well Our House correspondent kimy Alit
joins us live now and a very interesting
story this the William ruto's meeting
with Joe Biden in Washington Kenyan
forces Now set to intervene in Haiti
tell us about uh us involvement in
this yeah well there's been a long
history of security partnership between
the United States and Kenya it's it's
gone back for a number of issues and in
fact this state visit is celebrating the
60 years of diplomatic relations but the
two have partnered on combating whether
challenges include al-shabab whether
it's the houthis even in Ukraine uh so
the two leaders believe that combating
challenges in Haiti is is a natural
extension of that security partnership
but it does have its controversies and
in the press conference uh one of the
Kenyan reporters asked why are you
sending uh resources to the fire in
Haiti when there's a fire at home and
you heard the answer that was given
there just a moment ago it believes that
there is enough resources and there is a
loyalty there to other nations to work
and to to assist but uh this is
certainly something that is being pushed
back by Kenyan opposition lawmakers and
also human rights activists at the same
time we can tell you that this is a
partnership that the United States and
uh the uh Kenyan government believe in
and we should also point out well there
will be no American boots on the ground
participating in this along with the
1,000 Kenyan soldiers or rather police
officers officers uh this will be backed
by about 300 million in American dollars
of course uh President Joe Biden had his
own agenda for this very important press
conference with another world leader but
of course there was some persistent
questions there about the icc's request
for arrest warrants for Hamas and
Israeli leaders and of course
Washington's support for Tel
Aviv that's right as US President Joe
Biden continues to try and promote his
agenda you have to remember we're six
months away from Americans going to the
polls to try and and choose another
president whether it's Joe Biden or
Donald Trump uh these seem to be the
options and uh you know Joe Biden is
trying to win reelection he doesn't want
to continue talking about the war on
Gaza or his support for Israel and yet
that is what seems to be on the minds of
reporters and seems to be the on the
minds of Voters and seems to be the
protest that are all across campuses in
the United States this was about to be a
visit about uh promoting us interests in
Africa and how this could be combating
the influence of China but again what
happened was the very first question was
about uh arrest warrants as you point
out and you Joe Biden's uh support for
Israel and the US president tried to
dodge the question but he was not able
to get away with it completely but he
still did not answer the question the
question was whether or not Israel was
deliberately using starvation as a
weapon of war the president never
answered that question instead what he
did was he referred to a stock answer
about whether or not the ICC in fact has
jurisdiction uh something that the
United States does not believe it does
and whether or not uh the US president
believes that this even has any merits
in terms of an investigation at all
again surp not surprisingly something
the United States also does not support
thank you very much Kimberly
hulit make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from aler